Why did the two brothers keep the secret ?
For years , villagers believed that Endley Farm was hunted .
The farm was owned by two brothers , Joe and Bob Cox .
They employed a few farmhands , but no one was willing to work there long .
Every time a worker gave up his job , he told the same story .
Farm labourers said that they always woke up to find that work had been done overnight .
Hay had been cut and cowsheds had been cleaned .
A farm worker , who stayed up all night claimed to have seen a figure cutting corn in the moonlight .
In time , it became an accepted fact the Cox brothers employed a conscientious ghost that did most of their work for them .
No one suspected that there might be someone else on the farm who had never been seen .
This was indeed the case .
A short time ago , villagers were astonished to learn that the ghost of Endley had died .
Everyone went to the funeral , for the 'ghost ' was none other than Eric Cox , a third brother who was supposed to have died as a young man .
After the funeral , Joe and Bob revealed a secret which they had kept for over fifty years .
Eric had been the eldest son of the family , very much older than his two brothers .
He had been obliged to join the army during the Second World War .
As he hated army life , he decided to desert his regiment .
When he learnt that he would be sent abroad , he returned to the farm and his father hid him until the end of the war .
Fearing the authorities , Eric remained in hiding after the war as well .
His father told everybody that Eric had been killed in action .
The only other people who knew the secret were Joe and Bob .
They did not even tell their wives .
When their father died , they thought it their duty to keep Eric in hiding .
All these years , Eric had lived as a recluse .
He used to sleep during the day and work at night , quite unaware of the fact that he had become the ghost of Endley .
When he died , however , his brothers found it impossible to keep the secret any longer .
