What was the 'future ' electronic development that Leon Bagrit was n't able to foresee ?
Predicting the future is notoriously difficult .
Who could have imagined , in the mid 1970s , for example , that by the end of the 20th century , computers would be as common in people 's homes as TV sets ?
In the 1970s , computers were common enough , but only in big business , government departments , and large organizations .
These were the so-called mainframe machines .
Mainframe computers were very large indeed , often occupying whole air-conditioned rooms , employing full-time technicians and run on specially-written software .
Though these large machines still exist , many of their functions have been taken over by small powerful personal computers , commonly known as PCs .
In 1975 , a primitive machine called the Altair , was launched in the USA .
It can properly be described as the first 'home computer ' and it pointed the way to the future .
This was followed , at the end of the 1970s , by a machine called an Apple .
In the early 1980s , the computer giant , IBM produced the world 's first Personal Computer .
This ran on an 'operating system ' called DOS , produced by a then small company named Microsoft .
The IBM Personal Computer was widely copied .
From those humble beginnings , we have seen the development of the user-friendly home computers and multimedia machines which are in common use today .
Considering how recent these developments are , it is even more remarkable that as long ago as the 1960s , an Englishman , Leon Bagrit , was able to predict some of the uses of computers which we know today .
Bagrit dismissed the idea that computers would learn to 'think ' for themselves and would 'rule the world ' , which people liked to believe in those days .
Bagrit foresaw a time when computers would be small enough to hold in the hand , when they would be capable of providing information about traffic jams and suggesting alternative routes , when they would be used in hospitals to help doctors to diagnose illnesses , when they would relieve office workers and accountants of dull , repetitive clerical work .
All these computer uses have become commonplace .
Of course , Leon Bagrit could not possibly have foreseen the development of the Internet , the worldwide system that enables us to communicate instantly with anyone in any part of the world by using computers linked to telephone networks .
Nor could he have foreseen how we could use the Internet to obtain information on every known subject , so we can read it on a screen in our homes and even print it as well if we want to .
Computers have become smaller and smaller , more and more powerful and cheaper and cheaper .
This is what makes Leon Bagrit 's predictions particularly remarkable .
If he , or someone like him , were alive today , he might be able to tell us what to expect in the next fifty years .
