Does the writer think the parents where lucky or unlucky to gain prosperity in this way ?
Why ?
In democratic countries any efforts to restrict the freedom of the press are rightly condemned .
However , this freedom can easily be abused .
Stories about people often attract far more public attention than political events .
Though we may enjoy reading about the lives of others , it is extremely doubtful whether we would equally enjoy reading about ourselves .
Acting on the contention that facts are sacred , reporters can cause untold suffering to individuals by publishing details about their private lives .
Newspapers exert such tremendous influence that they can not only bring about major changes to the lives of ordinary people but can even overthrow a government .
The story of a poor family that acquired fame and fortune overnight , dramatically illustrates the power of the press .
The family lived in Aberdeen , a small town of 23,000 inhabitants in South Dakota .
As the parents had five children , life was a perpetual struggle against poverty .
They were expecting their sixth child and were faced with even more pressing economic problems .
If they had only had one more child , the fact would have passed unnoticed .
They would have continued to struggle against economic odds and would have lived in obscurity .
But they suddenly became the parents of quintuplets , an aeroplane arrived in Aberdeen bringing sixty reporters and photographers .
The rise to fame was swift .
Television cameras and newspapers carried the news to everyone in the country .
Newspapers and magazines offered the family huge sums for the exclusive rights to publish stories and photographs .
Gifts poured in not only from unknown people , but room baby food and soap manufacturers who wished to advertise their products .
The old farmhouse the family lived in was to be replaced by new $ 500,000 home .
Reporters kept pressing for interviews so lawyers had to be employed to act as spokesmen for the family at press conferences .
While the five babies were babies were still quietly sleeping in oxygen tents in hospital nursery , their parents were paying the price for fame .
It would never again be possible for them to lead normal lives .
They had become the victims of commercialization , for their names had acquired a market value .
Instead of being five new family members , these children had immediately become a commodity .
