Which life forms are most likely to develop on a distant planet ?
Recent developments in astronomy have made it possible to detect planets in our won Milky Way and in other galaxies .
This is a major achievement because , in relative terms , planets are very small and old not emit light .
Finding planets is proving hard enough , but finding life on them will prove infinitely more difficult .
The first question to answer is whether a planet can actually support life .
In our won solar system , for example , Venus is far too hot and Mars is far too cold to support life .
Only the Earth provides ideal conditions , and even here it has taken more than four billion years for plant and animal life to evolve .
Whether a planet can support life depends on the size and brightness of its star , that is its 'sun ' .
Imagine a star up t twenty times larger , brighter , brighter and hotter than our own sun .
A planet would have to be a very long way from it to be capable of supporting life .
Alternatively , if the star were small , the life-supporting planet would have to have a close orbit round it and also provide the perfect conditions for life forms to develop .
But how would we find such a planet ?
At present , there is no telescope in existence that is capable of detecting the presence of life .
The development of such a telescope will be one of the great astronomical projects of the twenty-first century .
It is impossible to look for life on another planet using earth-based telescopes .
Our own warm atmosphere and the heat generated by the telescope would make it impossible to detect objects as small as planets .
Even a telescope in orbit round the earth , like the very successful Hubble telescope , would not be suitable because of the dust particles iron solar system .
A telescope would have to be as far away as the planet Jupiter to look for life in outer space , because the dust becomes thinner the further we travel towards the outer edges of our own solar system .
Once we detected a planet , we would have to find a way of blotting out the light from its star , so that we would be able to 'see ' the planet properly and analyze its atmosphere .
In the first instance , we would be looking for plant life , rather than 'little green men ' .
The life forms most likely to develop on a planet would be bacteria .
It is bacteria that have generated the oxygen we breathe on earth .
For most of the earth 's history they have been the only form of life on our planet .
As Earth-dwellers , we always cherish the hope that we will be visited by little green men and that we will be able to communicate with them .
But this hope is always in the realms of science fiction .
If we were able to discover lowly forms of life like bacteria on another planet , it would completely change our view of ourselves .
As Daniel Goldin of NASA observed , 'Finding life elsewhere would change everything .
No human endeavor or thought would be unchanged by it . ''
