What was the difference between Bruce 's behaviour and that of other people ?
The rough across the plain soon became so bad that we tried to get Bruce to drive back to the village we had come from .
Even though the road was littered with boulders and pitted with holes , Bruce was not in the least perturbed .
Glancing at his map , he informed us that the next village was a mere twenty miles away .
It was not that Bruce always underestimated difficulties .
He simply had no sense of danger at all .
No matter what the conditions were , he believed that a car should be driven as fast as it could possibly go .
As we bumped over eh dusty track , we swerved to avoid large boulders .
The wheels scooped up stones which hammered ominously under the car .
We felt sure that sooner or later a stone would rip a hole in our petrol tank or damage the engine .
Because of this , we kept looking back , wondering if we were leaving a trail of oil and petrol behind us .
What a relief it was when the boulders suddenly disappeared , giving way to a stretch of plain where the only obstacles were clumps of bushes .
But there was worse to come .
Just ahead of us there was a huge fissure .
In response to renewed pleadings , Bruce stopped .
Though we all got out to examine the fissure , he remained in the car .
We informed him that the fissure extended for fifty years and was tow feet wide and four feet deep .
Even this had no effect .
Bruce went into a low gear and drove at a terrifying speed , keeping the front wheels astride the crack as he followed its zigzag course .
Before we had time to worry about what might happen , we were back on the plain again .
Bruce consulted the map once more and told us that the village was now only fifteen miles away .
Our next obstacle was a shallow pool of water about half a mile across .
Bruce charged at it , but in the middle , the car came to a grinding half .
A yellow light on the dashboard flashed angrily and Bruce cheerfully announced that there was no oil in the engine !
