What was the mistake the author made ?
We have learnt to expect that trains will be punctual .
After years of conditioning , most of us have developed an unshakable faith in railway timetables .
Ships may be delayed by storms ; flights may be cancelled because of bad weather , but trains must be on time .
Only an exceptionally heavy snowfall might temporarily dislocate railway services .
It is all too easy to blame the railway authorities when something does go wrong .
The truth is that when mistakes occur , they are more likely to be ours than theirs .
After consulting my railway timetable , I noted with satisfaction that there was an express train to Westhaven .
It went direct from my local station and the journey lasted mere hour and seventeen minutes .
When I boarded the train , I could not help noticing that a great many local people got on as well .
At the time , this did not strike me as odd .
I reflected that there must be a great many local people besides myself who wished to take advantage of this excellent service .
Neither was I surprise when the train stopped at Widley , a tiny station a few miles along the line .
Even a mighty express train can be held up by signals .
But when the train dawdled at station after station , I began to wonder , It suddenly dawned on me that this express was not roaring down the line at ninety miles an hour , but barely chugging along at thirty .
One hour and seventeen minutes passed and we had not even covered half the distance .
I asked a passenger if this was the Westhaven Express , but he had not even heard of it .
I determined to lodge a complaint as soon as we arrived .
Two hours later , I was talking angrily to the station master at Westhaven .
When he denied the train 's existence , I borrowed his copy of the timetable .
There was a note of triumph in my voice when I told him that it was there in black and white .
Glancing at it briefly , he told me to look again .
A tiny asterisk conducted me to a footnote at the bottom of the page .
It said : 'This service has been suspended . '
