Did the writer repair his lawn mower in the end ?
Why/Why not ?
So great is our passion for doing things for ourselves , that we are becoming increasingly less dependent on specialized labour .
No one can plead ignorance of a subject any longer , for these are countless do-it-yourself publications .
Armed with the right tools and materials , newlyweds gaily embark on the task of decorating their own homes .
Men , particularly , spend hours of their leisure time installing their own fireplaces , laying out their own gardens ; building garages and making furniture .
Some really keen enthusiasts go so far as to build their own computers .
Shops cater for the do-it-yourself craze not only by running special advisory services for novices , but by offering consumers bits and pieces which they can assemble at home .
Such things provide an excellent outlet for pent up creative energy , but unfortunately not all of us are born handymen .
Some wives tend to believe that their husbands are infinitely resourceful and can fix anything .
Even men who can hardly drive a nail in straight are supposed to be born electricians , carpenters , plumbers and mechanics .
When lights fuse , furniture gets rickety , pipes get clogged , or vacuum cleaners fail to operate , some woman assume that their husbands will somehow put things right .
The worst thing about the do-it-yourself game is that sometimes even men live under the delusion that they can do anything , even when they have repeatedly been proved wrong .
It is a question of pride as much as anything else .
Last spring my wife suggested that I call in a man to look at our lawn mower .
It had broken down the previous summer , and though I promised to repair it , I had never got round to it .
I would not hear of the suggestion and said that I would fix it myself .
One Saturday afternoon , I hauled the machine into the garden and had a close look at it .
As far as I could see , it needed only a minor adjustment : a turn of a screw here , a little tightening up there , a drop of oil and it would be as good as new .
Inevitably the repair job was not quite so simple .
The mower firmly refused to mow , so I decided to dismantle it .
The garden was soon littered with chunks of metal which had once made up a lawn mower .
But I was extremely pleased with myself .
I had traced the cause of the trouble .
One of links in the chain that drives the wheels had snapped .
After buying a new chain I was faced with the insurmountable task of putting the confusing jigsaw puzzle together again .
I was not surprised to find that the machine still refused to work after I had reassembled it , for the simple reason that I was left with several curiously shaped bits of metal which did not seem to fit anywhere .
I gave up in despair .
The weeks passed and the grass grew .
When my wife nagged me to do something about it , I told her that either I would have to buy a new mower or let the grass grow .
Needless to say our house is now surrounded by a jungle .
Buried somewhere in deep grass there is a rusting lawn mower which I have promised to repair one day .
