The word 'justice ' is given two different meanings in the text .
What is the distinction between them ?
The word justice is usually associated with courts of law .
We might say that justice has been done when a man 's innocence or guilt has been proved beyond doubt .
Justice is part of the complex machinery of the law .
Those who seek it undertake an arduous journey and can never be sure that they will find it .
Judges , however wise or eminent , are human and can make mistakes .
There are rare instances when justice almost ceases to be an abstract concept .
Reward or punishment are meted out quite independent of human interference .
At such times , justice acts like a living force .
When we use a phrase like 'it serves him right ' , we are , in part , admitting that a certain set of circumstances has enabled justice to act of its own accord .
When a thief was caught on the premises of large jewellery store on morning , the shop assistants must have found it impossible to resist the temptation to say 'it serves him right . '
The shop was an old converted house with many large , disused fireplaces and tall , narrow chimneys .
Towards midday , a girl heard a muffed cry coming from behind on of the walls .
As the cry was repeated several times , she ran to tell the manager who promptly rang up the fire brigade .
The cry had certainly come form one of the chimneys , but as there were so many of them , the fire fighters could not be certain which one it was .
They located the right chimney by tapping at the walls and listening for the man 's cries .
After chipping through a wall which was eighteen inches thick , they found that a man had been trapped in the chimney .
As it was extremely narrow , the man was unable to move , but the fire fighters were eventually able to free him by cutting a huge hole in the wall .
The sorry-looking , blackened figure that emerged , admitted at once that he had tried to break into the shop during the night but had got stuck in the chimney .
He had been there for nearly ten hours .
Justice had been done even before the man was handed over to the police .
