What factor helped to spread the disease of myxomatosis ?
In the early days of the settlement of Australia , enterprising settlers unwisely introduced the European rabbit .
This rabbit had no natural enemies in the Antipodes , so that it multiplied with that promiscuous abandon characteristic of rabbits .
It overran a whole continent .
It caused devastation by burrowing and by devouring the herbage which might have maintained millions of sheep and cattle .
Scientists discovered that this particular variety of rabbit ( and apparently no other animal ) was susceptible to a fatal virus disease , myxomatosis .
By infecting animals and letting them loose in the burrows , local epidemics of this disease could be created .
Later it was found that there was a type of mosquito which acted as the carrier of this disease and passed it on to the rabbits .
So while the rest of the world was trying to get rid of mosquitoes , Australia was encouraging this one .
It effectively spread the disease all over the continent and drastically reduced the rabbit population .
It later became apparent that rabbits were developing a degree of resistance to this disease , so that the rabbit population was unlikely to be completely exterminated .
There were hopes , however , that the problem of the rabbit would become manageable .
Ironically , Europe , which had bequeathed the rabbit as a pest to Australia , acquired this man-made disease as a pestilence .
A French physician decided to get rid of the wild rabbits on his own estate and introduced myxomatosis .
It did not , however , remain within the confines of his estate .
It spread through France , Where wild rabbits are not generally regarded as a pest but as sport and a useful food supply , and it spread to Britain where wild rabbits are regarded as a pest but where domesticated rabbits , equally susceptible to the disease , are the basis of a profitable fur industry .
The question became one of whether Man could control the disease he had invented .
RITCHIE CALDER Science Makes Sense
