How did William Hart 's childhood prepare him for his acting role in Western films ?
William S. hart was , perhaps , the greatest of all Western stars , fro unlike Gary Cooper and John Wayne he appeared in nothing but Westerns .
From 1914 to 1924 he was supreme and unchallenged .
It was Hart who created the basic formula of the Western film , and devised the protagonist he played in every film he made , the good-had man , the accidental-noble outlaw , or the honest-but-framed cowboy , or the sheriff made suspect by vicious gossip ; in short , the individual in conflict with himself and his frontier environment .
Unlike most of his contemporaries in Hollywood , Hart actually knew something of the old West .
He had lived in it as a child when it was already disappearing , and his hero was firmly rooted in his memories and experiences , and in both the history and the mythology of the vanished frontier .
And although no period or place in American history has been more absurdly romanticized , myth and reality did join hands in at least one arena , the conflict between the individual and encroaching civilization .
Men accustomed to struggling for survival against the elements and Indians were bewildered by politicians , bankers and businessmen , and unhorsed by fences , laws and alien taboos .
Hart 's good-bad man was always an outsider , always one of the disinherited , and if he found it necessary to shoot a sheriff or rob a bank along the way , his early audiences found it easy to understand and forgive , especially when it was Hart who , in the end , overcame the attacking Indians .
Audiences in the second decade of the twentieth century found it pleasant to escape to a time when life , though hard , was relatively simple .
We still do ; living in a world in which undeclared aggression , war , hypocrisy , chicanery , anarchy and impending immolation are part of our daily lives , we all want a code to live by .
CARL FOREMAN Virtue and a Fast Gun from The Observer
