What is a hovercraft riding on when it is in motion ?
Many strange new means of transport have been developed in our century , the strangest of them being perhaps the hovercraft .
In 1953 , a former electronics engineer in his fifties , Christopher Cockerell , who had turned to boat-building on the Norfolk Broads , suggested an idea on which he had been working for many years to the British Government and industrial circles .
It was the idea of supporting a craft on a 'pad ' , or cushion , of low-pressure air , ringed with a curtain of higher pressure air .
Ever since , people have had difficulty in deciding whether the craft should be ranged among ships , planes , or land vehicles -- for it is something in between a boat and an aircraft .
As a shipbuilder , Cockerell was trying to find a solution to the problem of the wave resistance which wastes a good deal of a surface ship 's power and limits its speed .
His answer was to lift the vessel out of the water by a great number of ring-shaped air jets on the bottom of the craft .
It 'flies ' , therefore , but it can not fly higher -- its action depends on the surface , water or ground , over which it rides .
The first tests on the Solent in 1959 caused a sensation .
The hovercraft travelled first over the water , then mounted the beach , climbed up the dunes , and sat down on a road .
Later it crossed the Channel , riding smoothly over the waves , which presented no problem .
Since that time , various types of hovercraft have appeared and taken up regular service .
The hovercraft is particularly useful in large areas with poor communications such as Africa or Australia ; it can become a 'flying fruit-bowl ' , carrying bananas from the plantations to the ports ; giant hovercraft liners could span the Atlantic ; and the railway of the future may well be the 'hovertrain ' , riding on its air cushion over a single rail , which it never touches , at speeds up to 300 m.p.h .
-- the possibilities appear unlimited .
EGON LARSEN The Pegasus Book of Inventors
