What does this text describe ?
Contamination of water supplies is usually due to poor sanitation close to water sources , sewage disposal into the sources themselves , leakage of sewage into distribution systems or contamination with industrial or farm waste .
Even if a piped water supply is safe at its source , it is not always safe by the time it reaches the tap .
Intermittent tap-water supplies should be regarded as particularly suspect .
Travellers on short trips to areas with water supplies of uncertain quality should avoid drinking tap-water , or untreated water from any other source .
It is best to hot drinks , bottled or canned drinks of well-known brand names -- international standards of water treatment are usually followed at bottling plants .
Carbonated drinks are acidic , and slightly safer .
Make sure that all bottles are opened in your presence , and that their rims are clean and dry .
Boiling is always a good way of treating water .
Some hotels supply boiled water on request and this can be used for drinking , or for brushing teeth .
Portable boiling elements that can boil small quantities of water are useful when the right voltage of electricity is available .
Refuse politely any cold drink from an unknown source .
Ice is only as safe as the water from which it is made , and should not be put in drinks unless it is known to be safe .
Drink can be cooled by placing them on ice tather than adding ice to them .
Alcohol may be a medical disinfectant , but should not be relied upon to sterilize water .
Ethanol is more effective at a concentration of 50-70 per cent ; below 20 per cent , its bactericidal action is negligible .
Spirits labelled 95 proof contain only about 47 per cent alcohol .
Beware of methylated alcohol , which is very poisonous , and should never be added to drinking water .
If no other safe supply can be obtained , tap water that is too hot to touch can be left to cool and is generally safe to drink .
Those planning a trip to remote areas , or intending to live in countries where drinking water is not readily available , should know about the various possible methods for making water safe .
RICHARD DAWOOD Travellers ' Health
