What does a pen have to do to record on paper the vibrations generated by an earthquake ?
An earthquake comes like a thief in the night , without warning .
It was necessary , therefore , to invent instruments that neither slumbered nor slept .
Some devices were quite simple .
One , for instance , consisted of rods of various lengths and thicknesses with would stand up end like ninepins .
When a shock came , it shook the rigid table upon which these stood .
If it were gentle , only the more unstable rods fell .
If it were severe , they all fell .
Thus the rods , by falling , and by the direction in which they fell , recorded for the severe , they all fell .
Thus the rods , by falling , and by the direction in which they fell , recorded for the slumbering scientist the strength of a shock that was too weak to waken him , and the direction from which it came .
But instruments far more deliecate than that were needed if any really serious advance was to be made .
The ideal to be aimed at was to devise an instrument that could record with a pen on paper , the movements of the ground or of the table as the quake passed by .
While I write my pen moves , but the paper keeps still .
With practice , no doubt , I could in time learn to write by holding the pen still while the paper moved .
That sounds a silly suggestion , but that was precisely the idea adopted in some of the early instruments ( seismometers ) for recording earthquake waves .
But when table , penholder and paper are all moving , how is it possible to write legibly ?
The key to a solution of that problem lay in an everyday observation .
Why does a person standing in a bus or train tend to fall when a sudden start is made ?
It is because his feet move on , but his head stays still .
A simple experiment will help us a little further .
Tie a heavy weight at the end of a long piece of string .
With the hand to and fro and around but not up and string so that the weight nearly touches the ground .
Now move the hand to and fro and around but not up and down .
It will be found that the weight a piece of string .
With the hand held high in the air , hold the string so that the weight nearly touches the ground .
Now move the hand to and fro and around but not up and down .
It will be found that ten weight moves but slightly or not at all .
Imagine an earthquake shock shaking the floor , the paper , you and your hand .
In the midst of all this movement , the weight and the pen would be still .
But as the paper moved from side to side under the pen point , its movement would be recorded in ink upon its surface .
It was upon this principle that the first instruments were made , but while the drum was being shaken , the line that the pen was drawing wriggled from side to side .
The apparatus thus described , however , records only the horizontal component of the wave movement , which is , in fact , much more complicated .
If we could actually see the path described by a particle , such as a sand grain in the rock , it would be more like that of a bluebottle path described by a particle , such as a sand grain in the rock , it would be more like that of a bluebottle buzzing round the room ; it would be up and down , to and fro and from side to side .
Instruments have been devised and can be so placed that all three elements can be recorded in different graphs .
When the instrument is situated at more than 700 miles from the earthquake centre , the graphic record shows three waves arriving one after at short intervals .
The first records the arrival of longitudinal vibrations .
The second marks the arrival of transverse vibrations which travel more slowly and arrive several minutes after the first .
These two have travelled through the earth .
It was from the study of these that so much was learnt about the interior of the earth .
The third , or main .
The third , or main wave , is the slowest and has travelled round the earth through the surface rocks .
H.H , SWINNERTON The Earth beneath Us
