What is the most influential factor in any human society ?
In man 's early days .
competition with other creatures must have been critical .
But this phase of our development is now finished .
Indeed , we lack practice and experience nowadays in dealing with primitive conditions .
I am sure that , without modern weapons , I would make a very poor show of disputing the ownership of a cave with a bear , and in this I do not think that I stand alone .
The last creature to compete with man was the mosquito .
But even the mosquito has been subdued by attention to drainage and by chemical sprays .
Competition between our selves , person against person , community against community , still persists , however ; and it is as fierce as it ever was .
But the competition of man against man is not the simple process envisioned in biology .
It is not a simple competition for a fixed amount of food determined by the physical environment , because the environment that determines our evolution is no longer essentially physical .
Our environment is chiefly conditoned by the things we believe .
Morocco and California are bits of the Earth in very similar latitudes , both on the west coasts of continents with similar climates , and probably with rather similar natural resources .
Yet their present development is wholly different , not so much because of different people wish to emphasize .
The most important factor in our environment is the state of our own minds .
It is well known that where the white man has invaded a primitive culture , the most destructive effects have come not from physical weapons but from ideas .
Ideas are dangerous .
The Holy Office knew this full well when it caused heretics to be burned in days gone by .
Indeed , the concept of free speech only exists in our modern society because when you are inside a community , you are conditioned by the conventions of the community to such a degree that it is very difficult to conceive of anything really destructive .
It is only someone looking on from outside that can inject the dangerous thoughts .
I do not doubt that it would be possible to inject ideas into the modern world that would utterly destroy us .
I would like to give you an example , but fortunately I can not do so .
Perhaps it will suffice to mention the unclear bomb .
Of making the effect on a reasonably advanced technological society , one that still does not possess the bomb , of making it aware of the possibility , of supplying sufficient details to enable the thing to be constructed .
Twenty or thirty pages of information handed to any of the major world powers around the year 1925 would have been sufficient to change the course of world history .
It is a strange thought , but I believe a correct one , that twenty or thirty pages of ideas and information would be capable of turning the present-day world upside down , or even destroying it .
I have often tried to conceive of what those pages might contain , but of course outside the particular patterns that our brains are conditioned to , or , to be more accurate , we can think only a very little way outside , and then only if we are very original .
FRED HOYLE Of Men and Galaxies
