What are the two different ways in which snake poison acts ?
How it came about that snakes manufactured poison is a mystery .
Over the periods their saliva , a mild , digestive juice like our own , was converted into a poison that defies analysis even today .
It was not forced upon them by the survival competition ; they could have caught and lived on prey without using poison , just as the thousands of non-poisonous snakes still do .
Poison to a snake is merely a luxury ; it enables it to get its food with very little effort , no more effort than one bite .
And why only snakes ?
Cats , for instance , would be greatly helped ; no running fights with large , fierce rats or tussles with grown rabbits -- just a bite and no more effort needed .
In fact , it would be an assistance to all carnivores though it would be a two-edged weapon when they fought each other .
But , of the vertebrates , unpredictable Nature selected only snakes ( and one lizard ) .
One wonders saliva into why Nature , with respect from that of others , as other on the blood .
In the conversion of saliva into poison , one might suppose that a fixed process took place .
It did not ; some snakes manufacture a poison different in every respect from that of others , as different as arsenic is from strychnine , and having different effects .
One poison acts on the nerves , the other on the blood .
The makers of the nerve poison include the mambas and the cobras and their venom is called neurotoxic .
Vipers ( adders ) and rattlesnakes manufacture the blood poison , which is known as haemolytic .
Both poisons are unpleasant , but by far the more unpleasant is the blood poison .
It is said that the nerve poison is the more primitive of the two , that the blood poison is , so to speak , a newer product from an improved formula .
Be that as it may , the nerve poison does its business with man far more quickly than the blood poison .
This , however , means nothing .
Snakes did not acquire their poison for use against man but for use against prey such as rats and mice , and the effects on these of viperine poison is almost immediate .
JOHN CROMPTON The snake
